ide/docker/README.md, before:

# XCSoar Docker Image

This Docker Image when built, will compile XCSoar for several targets in a clean room environment.

## Currently Supported Targets

Targets:
  - UNIX (linux & co)
  - UNIX-SDL (Software Rendering for X11 forward)
  - ANDROID
  - PC
  - KOBO
  - DOCS

## Instructions

The container itself is readonly. The build results will appear in `./output/`.

To run the container interactivly:
```bash
docker run \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar \
    -it ghcr.io/xcsoar/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest /bin/bash
```

To run the ANDROID build:
```bash
docker run \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar \
    -it ghcr.io/xcsoar/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest xcsoar-compile ANDROID
```

To build the container:
```bash
docker build \
    --file ide/docker/Dockerfile \
    -t xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest ./ide/
```

### Running XCSoar as a GUI application from the container

Sometimes your runtime environment diverges too far from the build environment to be able to execute the binary natively.
In this case you can start XCSoar inside the container and let it be displayed on your X11 Server:
```bash
docker run \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar \
    --volume="$HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority:rw" \
    -v $HOME/.xcsoar/:/root/.xcsoar \
    --env="DISPLAY" --net=host \
    -it ghcr.io/xcsoar/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest /bin/bash
```
Compile and run the binary (UNIX-SDL target):
```bash
xcsoar-compile UNIX-SDL
./output/UNIX/bin/xcsoar
```

Commit message:

docker+doc: switch instructions to podman * replace docker with podman * use user uid and run in user context * change path to /opt/xcsoar/XCSoar for source * cache volume for ccache

ide/docker/README.md, after:

# XCSoar Container Image

This container image when built, will compile XCSoar for several targets in a
clean room environment.

## Currently Supported Targets

Targets:
  - UNIX (linux & co)
  - UNIX-SDL (Software Rendering for X11 forward)
  - ANDROID
  - PC
  - KOBO
  - DOCS

## Instructions

The container itself is readonly. The build results will appear in
`./XCSoar/output/<platform>`.

To run the prebuilt container interactivly:
```bash
podman run --userns=keep-id \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar/XCSoar \
    --volume xcsoar-cache:/opt/xcsoar/.cache/ccache \
    -it ghcr.io/xcsoar/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest
```

To run the ANDROID build:
```bash
podman run --userns=keep-id \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar/XCSoar \
    --volume xcsoar-cache:/opt/xcsoar/.cache/ccache \
    -it ghcr.io/xcsoar/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest xcsoar-compile ANDROID
```

To build the container:
```bash
podman build \
    --file ide/docker/Dockerfile \
    -t xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest ./ide/
```

### Running XCSoar as a GUI application from the container

Sometimes your runtime environment diverges too far from the build environment
to be able to execute the binary natively.  In this case you can start XCSoar
inside the container and let it be displayed on your X11 Server:

```bash
podman run --userns=keep-id \
    --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/opt/xcsoar/XCSoar \
    --volume="$HOME/.Xauthority:/root/.Xauthority:rw" \
    --volume="$HOME/.xcsoar/:/opt/xcsoar/.xcsoar" \
    --env="DISPLAY" --net=host \
    -it localhost/xcsoar/xcsoar-build:latest ./XCSoar/output/UNIX/bin/xcsoar
```
